# G489/589 Final Project Report and Code Instructions 

**NOTE! The final project is due at 11:59pm on Sunday 15th December, 2019.**

In the last four weeks of class you will complete your final project. The final submission will contain a written report (see rubric below) plus all the scripts you have used in your project in a Jupyter Notebook (with comments!). The aim of this project is to use many, if not all, of the Python libraries, methods and functions you have learned during this class. I expect you to go back over the assignments we have done to remind yourself of the methods used. You may find it helpful to fill in the Python Methods Table Template, which you can also find in the course GitHub repository in the “Final Project” folder (and in the Final Project assignment on Canvas).

NOTE: We have learned three uses of coding: 1) cleaning/tidying your data and preparing it for analysis; 2) Exploratory data analysis; 3) analyzing the data (often using statistical methods) to answer a specific question about the patterns contained in the data and what we can learn from them. 
To achieve full marks for this project it must contain all three elements. You may strongly focus on one aspect, with slightly reduced focus on the second aspect, and a smaller focus on the third aspect.; or, you may present an equal focus on all three. If you strongly focus on one aspect there must be substantial work presented. If you are focusing on cleaning and tidying your data, you must have a good and clearly explained reason for doing so. For example, if you have a lot of data to process (many, large files with multiple issues of missing data, incorrect units etc). If you only have one dataset that does not require a lot of pre-processing, you must instead focus on extensive EDA (that leads you a long way to answering your question or posing new analyses) or an extensive statistical data analysis. 

Please write all your code in a Jupyter Notebook with extensive comments for each task you complete. Points will be deducted if your code is not commented. You may choose to write the sections of your report (outlined in the table below) in the Jupyter Notebook (instead of a Word doc or equivalent) by switching the input boxes to markdown text. However, note that I do expect paragraphs – not just sentences – for each section so you can adequately describe the purpose of your project, the methods used, and an analysis and discussion of your results.

You can find the grading rubric for the final project in the word doc in this folder entitled "G489589_FinalProject_Instructions_GradingRubric.docx".
